Hello English nerds, welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
And I'm Erica. And today we're going to be looking at English slang and informal words used
in the 1980s. So this is the next part of our decades dialogues. Exactly. So the 1980s
may be for many of our listeners is a little bit more familiar and there are a lot of phrases
and a lot of words that were born in this decade and we still use them today. So we're going to
learn those words and phrases in this dialogue. But before we start we need to preview a couple of
words. So let's go now to vocabulary preview. Very vocabulary preview. So one of the words that we're
going to hear in our dialogue is ride. Is that your ride? Is that your ride? So all right, normally we
know this word as a verb, right? Right to ride a bicycle. In this context it's an informal way
of referring to your car. So a ride is a car. Yeah, so I just bought a new ride. All right, well,
maybe you'll take me for a ride and you're a new ride. And we're also going to be looking at
this word loaded. He's loaded. So if you are loaded, you're really rich. You have a lot of money.
Yeah, we're loaded with money. So loaded and ride. Those are two words for vocabulary preview.
And well, let's listen to our 1980s dialogue and see what happens.
Jim, what's up, man? Charlie, is that your ride? It's what ugly dude?
Don't be an airhead. This is a 1969 Chevy Impala. I just need to fix it up a bit.
In a couple of months, this baby is going to be wicked. Not even. Check it out. Now that's a fresh ride.
See about the driver's a major dweave. Anyway, we can have a car like that if their daddy's loaded like
his. He's coming this way. Be cool. Hey, guys, what do you think of my automobile? Isn't it bad to
word? The ladies are going to be lining up to get with you when they see you driving around in that car.
You really think so. For sure. Awesome. Psych. You totally fell for it.
You're a real scumbad Charlie. When I do the nasty with the prom queen,
we'll see who has a last laugh. Dude, don't have a cow.
All right, so typical high school students of the decade, right?
Definitely very, very 80s. Very 80s. And well, of course, you always have the situation with the cool
kid and maybe the the kids that are not so cool and well, they're making fun of him, right?
Yeah, but they use some really cool words. So let's look at them now in language takeaway.
Language takeaway. All right. So the first word that we saw in language takeaway and was really
interesting this word but ugly. It's but ugly. That car is but ugly. So when something is but ugly,
it's really ugly, right? It's very ugly. It's not just ugly. It's very ugly. And what
would but is like from your your bottom? From your bottom, yeah? Yeah. So he said the car was
but ugly and the other guy answered by saying, hey, don't be an airhead. An airhead. Don't be an
airhead. So an airhead is someone with air in their head. And they're head. So they're not very smart.
They've got no brain. They've got no brain. So he said don't be an airhead. Don't be such an idiot.
Mm-hmm. All right. Now for the third word, he described his car as being wicked.
It's wicked. That's wicked. It's going to be wicked. Okay, so this is a very 80s way of saying
it's going to be cool. Yep. It's going to be awesome. It's going to be wicked. All right. And now when
they saw another car pulling up a new car, he described it as a fresh ride. It's a fresh ride.
Now we understand that ride is a car, right? Mm-hmm. So a fresh ride. It's another way of saying cool.
Okay, so kind of similar wicked and fresh. Yeah. Now finally the end of our dialogue,
they said, you're a real scumbag, Charlie. So this word scumbag is interesting. You're a scumbag.
A scumbag. Yeah, it's interesting and it's still used today, I would say. Yep. So when someone
is a scumbag, they're just really not a nice person. Yeah, they're not nice or they're not maybe
to a certain point honest. They're not kind. Exactly. You're a scumbag. Mm-hmm. Okay, but it's not a
very harsh word, right? It's not harsh to say, call somebody a scumbag? Well, it's not like
a swear word, but it's certainly not a nice thing to say to someone. Okay, exactly. All right,
so let's listen to all these adjectives that we've just looked at right now. Again, in our dialogue,
and then we'll come back and look at some more phrases.
Jim, what's up, man? Charlie, is that your ride? It's but ugly, dude. Don't be an airhead. This is
1969 Chevy Impala. I just need to fix it up a bit. In a couple of months, this baby's going to be wicked.
Not even. Check it out. Now that's a fresh ride. Hmm, too bad, the driver is a major
dweeb. Anyone can have a car like that if their daddy's loaded like his. He's coming this way.
Be cool. Hey guys, what do you think of my automobile? Isn't it bad to the bone?
Word, the ladies are going to be lining up to get with you when they see you driving around
in that car. You really think so? For sure. Awesome. Psych, you totally fell for it.
You are a real scumbag, Charlie. When I do the nasty with the prom queen,
we'll see who has the last laugh. Dude, don't have a cow.
Okay, well, you know what, Marco? I love the 80s. I love the language of the 80s. I love the music of the
80s and I'm really loving these phrases from the 80s. So why don't we look at them now in fluency
builder? Fluency builder. All right, so I'm fluency builder today. Let's take a look at these phrases
that you were talking about. And the first one is very interesting. So these two guys that were
making fun of this other person that was in this nice car, and he called him a major dweeb. A major dweeb.
He's a major dweeb. What a major dweeb. Now let's break this into two parts first.
Well, let's see what dweeb means. Well, a dweeb is a very uncool person. Okay, so kind of similar to a nerd.
Yeah, a small kind of guy with no power. Okay, he's a dweeb. Now this word major.
It just means big, really serious. So it's a way of emphasizing, right? Yeah, and you can say
anything, you can have a major anything. Like, I've got a major headache. All right, I can say I have
a major problem this week. Okay, so major, a very big problem. Yep. Now they're talking about this
really cool car. And the guy who is a bit of a dweeb, he said, isn't it bad to the bone? Bad to the bone?
It's bad to the bone. All right, now this is also part of a famous song, bad to the bone. But what does
it mean? Well, when something is bad to the bone, it's super cool. It's like it's so dangerous that
it's cool. Exactly. It's very, very cool. It's bad to the bone. Now this is not used anymore.
No, no, don't walk out of your house and use this phrase tomorrow. All right, so, but it's interesting
to know because there is a famous song that has this phrase in it so bad to the bone. All right,
so the car was so cool. It was bad to the bone that all of the ladies would be wanting to
get with the driver. All right, so somebody wants to get with you. He just wants to get with you.
So if you want to get with someone, you want to have sex with them. Right, so if you want to get
with someone, basically, it means that you want to have sex with them. But there's another phrase
that was used in the dial. That means pretty much the same thing. Yeah, to do the nasty.
To do the nasty. They're doing the nasty. Okay, now this was a very popular way of saying it in the
80s. It means to have sex as well. Yeah, but this one is a little bit rude, isn't it?
Yeah, I think it's a little bit more direct. Yeah, if you and your friends are talking and you say,
hey, I think that girl wants to get with you. It's a little bit more casual and less obvious.
Yeah, yes, do the nasty is a little bit more a little more rude. Yeah, a little bit more direct.
Yeah, and now the last phrase that we're going to look at today was May Famous by the
cartoons, the Simpsons. And it's don't have a cow. Don't have a cow. Don't have a cow.
So to not have a cow, don't have a cow means to get really angry, to freak out, to get upset.
All right, so now we know that you say don't have a cow, but can I say it and use it in the
positive? Can I say, hey, my boss totally had a cow today in the office? Yeah, and it means again.
So it freaked out. Got angry. Made a big deal of something. Okay, he had a cow.
Yeah, so Frank's going to have a cow when he finds out I smashed his car. Of course, Frank is going to
have a cow. How can you smash his car? All right, but now it's time for us to listen to this
dialogue for the last time. And then we'll come back and talk a little bit more about this decade of the
1980s.
Jim, what's up, man? Charlie, is that your ride? It's what ugly dude?
Don't be an airhead. This is a 1969 Chevy Impala. I just need to fix it up a bit.
In a couple of months, this baby is going to be wicked.
Not even. Check it out. Now, that's a fresh ride. Well, too bad, the driver's a major
dweeb. Anyway, we can have a car like that if the daddy's loaded like his. He's coming this way,
be cool. Hey, guys, what do you think of my automobile? Isn't it bad to the bone?
Word, the ladies are going to be lining up to get with you when they see you driving around in that
car. You really think so. For sure. Awesome.
Psych. You totally fell for it. You're a real skumbat, Charlie. When I do the nasty with the
prom queen, we'll see who has a last laugh. Dude, don't have a cow.
Okay, it's so marco. When I was listening to the dialogue this time, I heard a really cool word.
They said, psych. Right. Now, this was a very popular thing during the 80s
when you would say to somebody, psych. So this is like saying, just kidding, right? So you would say,
oh, Eric, I really like your hat. Oh, thank you. Psych, that hat is terrible.
Right. So that's how you would use it. You would give somebody a compliment or you would lie to somebody.
Yeah. And then tell them psych and then like tell them the truth. Like, oh, that had a terrible
or I was just kidding. Okay. So psych, what a great phrase. It was very very popular. And when I was
in school, we would use it as well. We would psych each other out. So do we still use this phrase today?
I don't think we use it today. I don't think it's cool anymore. Well, if you use it, it's kind of like
you're joking, right? Yeah. And I think it would make people laugh. Like, you know, that's pretty funny.
Yeah, you're joking about how you're a little bit old fashioned. Exactly. Yeah. I'm very sure you
would surprise a lot of your native English speaking friends if you use this phrase. Mm, a good one to
try out. Now, if you have any questions about this phrase or any other of the language,
come to our website at EnglishPod.com. Right. We're there to answer all your questions and also let
us know any other lessons or topics that you would like to learn about in the future. Well, thanks
for listening to this lesson you guys. And until next time, goodbye. Bye.